## Course Summary

This class so far has been mostly discussion oriented for me. The technical part seems to be lesser after the midterm project. I enjoy the discussions each student in class is bringing to the table, from robot religion to robot soldiers, although I think we didn’t go deeply into each topic. With all students presenting their topic of interests, there is breadth to what we are touching upon. We are not just focusing on one direction but touching upon every aspect of the robotic future that we are waiting for. What is magical about the discussion after each presentation is that you never know where the conversation can lead to. It is like picking up each person’s intelligence. Sometimes, other students connect the dots between different theory or topics that I wouldn’t even have thought about. And naturally I was learning from the discussion as much as I am learning from the readings. When preparing for my own presentation, I had the chance to dive deep into a topic that I have long been curious about. While doing my research, I was able to learn the history and theoretical frame of gendering robots. Aside from the “what was”, the “what is” development that is ongoing fascinates me even more. Knowing that the research I am carrying out right now will someday come into use, the research process and preparation of the presentation were quite pleasant. 


The readings are often really interesting. Especially the science fiction ones and the one episode of star trek and the social dilemma movie. The different inputs of knowledge and variety of sources that we have instead of just paper and academic essays help me learn more and I was able to enjoy the readings more. I think the first few readings about having robot demonstrating emotions like “love,” “hate,” and “aggression,” through behaviors control are very helpful with anchoring our learning motive. They clear out the confusions on what our processing projects are aiming for. 


The processing technical techniques we learned help tremendously with my midterm project: the fireflies ecosystem. I think the idea of constructing an ecosystem of your choosing with processing is wonderful. I chose fireflies because some of mine most beautiful childhood memories were to go on fireflies observation trip with family. Being able to sort of recreate that with my own codes felt amazing. It was quite tricky when their behavior demonstrated tendencies that I didn’t expect. But as Etisham and Chinoyerem gave me advice, I realized that is the beauty of such an ecosystem. We are not supposed to know exactly what was to happen. For the final project, I am thrilled to see how everyone’s systems are coming together and becoming one big project. It is running perfectly smoothly on my computer. I also observe that many people’s eco systems are not operating as it was designed to do, I hope that before the semester ends, we will get to maybe solve that a bit. On that note, one of the few things that I wish were different is to have more technical assignments. Maybe not more processing projects on ecosystems, but other artistic project that also connects to robotic future. Overall, I have learned from the class. One suggestion for future reference might be to balance more between technical and discussion, so our learning outcome are more tangible. 
